<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:zenoss.com:doctypes:dita:dtd:task" "task.dtd">
<task id="d60e293"><title>Configuring <ph conkeyref="names/platform"/></title><taskbody><context><p>All WebLogic services must have a device entry under the <filepath>/Devices/Server/WebLogic</filepath> device
      class.</p><note>
        <p>The <cmdname>zenjmx</cmdname> daemon must be configured and
        running. See  for more information
        about configuring the <cmdname>zenjmx</cmdname> daemon with the Sun
        JRE tools.</p>
      </note></context><steps-informal><ol>
        <li>
          <p>Navigate to the device class or device.</p>

          <ul>
            <li>
              <p>If applying changes to a device class:</p>

              <ol>
                <li>
                  <p>Select the class in the devices hierarchy.</p>
                </li>

                <li>
                  <p>Click <b>Details</b>.</p>
                </li>

                <li>
                  <p>Select Configuration Properties.</p>
                </li>
              </ol>
            </li>

            <li>
              <p>If applying changes to a device:</p>

              <ol>
                <li>
                  <p>Click the device in the device list.</p>
                </li>

                <li>
                  <p>Select Configuration Properties.</p>
                </li>
              </ol>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>

        <li>
          <p>Edit the appropriate configuration properties for the device
          or devices.</p>

          <table>
            <title>WebLogic Configuration Properties</title>

            <tgroup cols="2">
              <thead>
                <row>
                  <entry>Name</entry>

                  <entry>Description</entry>
                </row>
              </thead>

              <tbody>
                <row>
                  <entry><p>zWebLogicJmxManagementAuthenticate</p></entry>

                  <entry><p>This configuration property is
                  deprecated</p></entry>
                </row>

                <row>
                  <entry><p>zWebLogicJmxManagementPassword</p></entry>

                  <entry><p>JMX password</p></entry>
                </row>

                <row>
                  <entry><p>zWebLogicJmxManagementPort</p></entry>

                  <entry><p>The port number used to gather JMX
                  information</p></entry>
                </row>

                <row>
                  <entry><p>zWebLogicJmxManagementUsername</p></entry>

                  <entry><p>JMX username for authentication</p></entry>
                </row>
              </tbody>
            </tgroup>
          </table>
        </li>

        <li>
          <p>Click <uicontrol outputclass="guibutton">Save</uicontrol> to save your changes.</p>

          <p>You will now be able to start collecting the WebLogic server
          metrics from this device.</p>
        </li>

        <li>
          <p>Navigate to Graphs and you should see some placeholders for
          performance graphs. After approximately 15 minutes you should see
          the graphs start to become populated with information.</p>
        </li>
      </ol></steps-informal><result><note type="tip">
        <p>The out-of-the-box WebLogic data source configuration has been
        defined at the macro level, but can be configured to operate on a more
        granular basis. For example, the Servlet Reload Count applies to all
        servlets in all web applications but it could be narrowed to be
        Servlet /submitOrder in web application "production server".</p>
      </note></result></taskbody></task>
