<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "urn:pubid:zenoss.com:doctypes:dita:dtd:reference" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="referenceid">
  <title>(WebLogicMonitor) WebLogic Monitor</title>
  <shortdesc>The <zenpack>ZenPacks.zenoss.WebLogicMonitor</zenpack> ZenPack monitors Oracle WebLogic Server services.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <p>This ZenPack uses the JMX Remote API and and accesses MBeans
        deployed within WebLogic that contain performance information about the
        components that are being managed. This performance information includes
        pool sizes for data sources (JDBC), threads, connections (JCA), queues
        (JMS), servlets, JSPs, Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), timer queues.</p>
      
      <p>Throughput is also monitored when it is available. This metric is
          computed by WebLogic and is based on the number of messages moving through
          a queue at any given time. The throughput metric gives a good picture of
          the health of the messaging subsystem, which is commonly used throughout
          many enterprise applications. Stateless, Stateful, and Entity EJB
          performance metrics are monitored, as are message driven bean
          performance.</p>
      
      <p>Security realms are also monitored for potential denial of service
            attacks. This includes recording of authentication failures, broken out by
            valid accounts, invalid accounts, and accounts that are currently locked
            out. Application specific realms can be monitored by customizing the built
            in WebLogic default realm.</p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
